is with the Doha Institute for Graduate
Studies Mr masy I know that you were
listening to the news conference from
the Israeli War cabinet what did you
make of what you heard from from the
three men about the ceasefire agreement
and their
plans well first of all there was
something uh that was striking um and
Marwan spoke to it a few minutes ago and
that is that Netanyahu tried to claim uh
um that the only reason that he was able
to achieve this victory that the only
reason he was able to get these hos back
is because he's had the proverbial knife
to uh uh hamas's neck right that he's
been um you know overwhelming them with
military force this is simply not uh the
case the reality is that Hamas from day
one actually wanted to give these uh
civilian you know the elderly people and
the children back to Israel and Israel
was was refusing these offers so it's
actually Israel that's been forced kind
of to to take this deal that's the first
thing the second thing now in terms of
their their end game here it was also
striking to hear all three men talk
about the need to continue this war yeah
exactly they say that you know prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu he even said
that he hopes that the ceas fire can be
extended But ultimately the fighting has
resumed because their goal is to defeat
Hamas right which is as many people have
noted is it's kind of an unwinable uh um
you know uh War right because uh Hamas
is more of an idea than than it is
anything else but uh even if we take
them at their word that they're trying
to eliminate Hamas what we see is that
the endgame here is about greater Israel
right this is something that is deeply
embedded within Zionist ideology it's
been written about by many Israeli
Scholars the idea is that uh what
happened in the the catastrophe the NECA
in 1948 and then subsequently with with
occupations of Palestinian land uh was
just the beginning and that UL
ultimately the land needs to be purified
uh of Arabs or from Arabs uh and that it
needs to be purely Jewish from the river
to the sea that is uh the the dominant
ideology uh inside of Israel that's the
dominant Zionist uh uh thought on all of
this and what we're seeing take place in
Gaza is an attempt to implement sort of
another phase of that they want to get
all the Palestinians out of Gaza and
sadly they're they're succeeding on on
some fronts and they've said that the
Palestinians who have fled the fighting
in the north and gone to South Gaza that
they will not allow them to return to
the north there are something like 1.5
million people in Gaza who are
internally displaced I mean what happens
to these people right so first of all we
have to point out that this kind of uh
uh Force to displacement is a war crime
uh and under international law this has
been pointed out by numerous
International humanitarian law Scholars
so there are already numerous war war
crimes being being carried out but um as
you noted they're they're destroying uh
the north of Gaza they're trying to get
everybody out of the north of Gaza they
destroying much of the South well right
they they've they've taken people to the
South and I think um the the the goal
now is to make life so miserable uh and
make the conditions so bad that people
have no choice but ultimately to leave
Gaza altogether but where do they go
well the Israeli government has been
very open they've been saying things
like why don't the Egyptians take the
the the the gazin in why don't the
jordanians take the gazin in the gazin
in the Israeli government has been very
transparent about what it wants to do um
and that's this is one of the reasons
why Palestinians many of them are so
adamant about about staying put they're
saying they don't want to go to Egypt
they don't want to go to uh uh Jordan or
anywhere else and the US has you know
many people have said that the US has
not used The Leverage that it has with
Israel but one thing that the US has
been quite outspoken about is whenever
prime minister Netanyahu has spoken
about the plans for Gaza you know
whenever the fighting ends the US has
said that there cannot be a forced
displacement of people in Gaza there
cannot be Israeli control over Gaza in
many ways this is this is rhetoric that
the Biden Administration has to maintain
they can't come out and say they're
aiding and abetting um you know war
crimes and and likely genocide many
scholars have come out and said this
they're not shy about saying that they
don't agree with the
ceasefire correct but you know I mean we
don't want to necessarily go all the way
down the road of of internal American
politics but the bottom line is that uh
the Israeli Lobby in the United States
uh uh exerts considerable uh sway all of
these mainstream politicians in both the
Democratic and Republican parties uh
receive many millions of dollars from uh
from the Israel uh Lobby so there there
has to be a certain level of support for
Israel for American politics uh uh to
function that's just the unfortunate
reality and that's why the United States
uh is effectively In Cahoots with with
Israel uh and facilitating and aiding
and abetting everything that they're
doing uh in Gaza right now Mr masri
thank you very much for your analysis we
do appreciate it that is Muhammad Al
masri from The theha Institute for
Graduate Studies